Dear Maud,

Your point is well taken. There isn't an universal theorem about logit
scales being more efficient. However, for many problems (physics,
biology) the model parameters are constraint (e.g. cell division rates
are positive, yet cannot exceed a certain limit). Thus, the logit
transform seems natural. Of course, it isn't the only transform
available. If you use very small lower bounds and very large upper
bounds in Bhat, you essentially get back the results (Hessian etc) on
the original scale. My general experience is that the convergence of
the DFP optimizer improves with 'limits' imposed on the parameter
whether they (the limits) really exist or not. I do not have
references that investigate this problem in a systematic
manner. Finding optima is a bit of an art.

However, I should add, in my experience the (asymmetric) logit-based
Wald confidence intervals frequently agree very well with MCMC-based
credibility regions (using uniform prior distributions). Of course,
this may not always be the case.

Best, Georg Luebeck



Maud TOURNOUD wrote:

> Dear Georg Luebeck, I am a french PhD student and I am working with
>your very useful dfp function (Bhat package).  You use a logit type
>transformation (ftrf () ) and you minimize the likelihood on the
>logit scale. You calculate the hessian matrix and the confidence
>intervals on the logit scale. Then you transform the upper and lower
>bounds to return results on the original scale (btrf).  Do you think
>the normality assumption for the parameters is more respected on the
>logit scale, whatever the likelihood function ?  On other words, why
>don't you calculate the hessian and the confidence intervals on the
>original scale ?  Do you have references about this question ?  Thank
>you very much for your help.  Maud Tournoud.  -- Maud Tournoud
>Laboratoire Biostatistique Santé Université Claude Bernard Lyon I UMR
>CNRS 5558 Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud 165, chemin du grand revoyet
>69495 Pierre Benite téléphone: +33 4 78 86 57 73
